Algeria|When referring to its land area, it is the largest country in Africa and the Arab World (since South Sudan gained independence from Sudan in July 2011), and also of the countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea; it is also the tenth-largest country in the world. The country is bordered in the northeast by Tunisia, in the east by Libya, in the west by Morocco, in the southwest by Western Sahara, Mauritania, and Mali, in the southeast by Niger, and in the north by the Mediterranean Sea. Its size is almost 2,400,000 square kilometres (926,645 sq mi) with an estimated population of 36.3 million as of 2011. Algeria is a member of the African Union, the Arab League, OPEC and the United Nations. The country is also a founding member of the Arab Maghreb Union.
Angola|In  Kikongo, Kimbundu, Umbundu: Repubilika ya Ngola, is bordered by DRC to the North, Namibia to the south and Zambia to the east. It has a western coast on the Atlantic Ocean. Angola has vast mineral reources and petroleum too. Luanda is the capital of Angola. Angola has an exclave province known as Cambinda and it shares borders with the two Congos. Formerly a Portuguese colony Angola has had a tumultous past but it is now mainly a silent success story. A long war of liberation in the seventies did not end with Angola's independence in 1975. Civil war went on upto 2002. Angola has wealth and her economy grows well but the country’s management of the economy so that the poor benefit remains challenged not sorely because of the Angolans. International interests remain the threat of any country that has mineral resources unless great sagacity is exercised. The literacy rate is 42%.
Benin|Once known as Dahomey, Benin lies in West Africa and is bordered by Togo to the west, Burkina Faso and Niger to the north. To the east lies Nigeria Benin hasa population of approximately 9.05 million who live mainly on the country’s small southern coastline on the Bight of Benin. The capital of Benin is Porto-Novo. Coutnou is the seat of government.
Botswana|The people of Botswana in are in plural called "Batswana"  and in singular  Motswana. Botswana was formerly known as Bechuanaland and it current name Botswana was adapted after the country became independent on 30 Sept 1966. Most of Botswana is covered by the Kalahari Desert. Botswana is situated in Southern Africa with  Namibia to the west north, Zimbabwe to the North east and Zambia with a short poorly defined border to the north. South Africa lies in Botswana's south and south east. Botswana has a population of 2 million people. Botswana's economy is one of the fastest growing in Africa and in the world. Writing as an art form has existed in Botswana for a long while from the rock painting era especially in the Tsodilo Hills known to be 20,000 years old. Botswana has distinguished writers whose genres range from historical, political and witty story writing.  Prominent amongst these are the South African born Bessie Head who settled in Serowe village, Andrew Sesinyi, Barolong Seboni, Unity Dow, Galesiti Baruti, Caitlin Davies and Moteane Melamu.
Burkina Faso|Burkina Faso Was formerly known as The Upper Volta. President Thomas Sankara re-named it Burkina Faso which means the house of people of integrity in both Moore and Dioula, the two main local languages.  A land locked country, Burkina is bordered by Ivory Coast to the southwest, Benin to the Southeast, Niger to the east, and Togo and Ghana to the south and Mali to the north. The population of the country is 16 000 000. Burkinabe is what the people of Burkina Faso are called. They are said to have populated the area between 14 000 and 5 000 BC in the northwestern region of the country. In 1896, Burkina Faso became a French protectorate. In 1960, the country gained independence. There are 69 languages in Burkina Faso. One of them is said not to have mother-tongue speakers
Burundi|In the area of the Great Lakes of Africa, which include Lake Victoria, Tanzania and Lake Malawi lies landlocked Burundi, a neighbor of Rwanda to the north, Tanzania to the east and South and the DRC to the west. The population of Burundi is over 10 million and it the country is only 28, 000 km² with an estimated population of over 10,000,000. Its capital is Bujumbura. The people of Burundi have been since the countries formation the Twa, Tutsi and Hutu.    These  peoples are also found in Rwanda. Burundi was ruled as a kingdom by the Tutsi for over two hundred years. Germany and Belgium occupied the region at the beginning of the 20th Century, when it was known as Rwanda-Urundi a European colony. The Tutsi and the Hutu had many social differences and civil wars were a main thing throught out the middle of the 20th Century.“When several Burundians of close acquaintance meet for a gathering they drink impeke, a beer, together from a large container to symbolize unity. Notable Burundians include the footballer Mohammed Tchité, singer Jean Pierre Nimbona, popularly known as Kidumu, who is based in Nairobi, Kenya,” according to Wikipedia. Kirundi, French, and Swahili are spoken throughout Burundi. Burundi's literacy rate is low, due to low school attendance. Ten percent of Burundian boys are allowed a secondary education. Burundi's oral tradition is strong and relays history and life lessons through storytelling, poetry, and song. Imigani, indirimbo, amazina, and ivyivugo are types of literary genres existing in Burundi
Cameroon| Cameroon, officially the Republic of Cameroon (French: République du Cameroun), is a country in west Central Africa. It is bordered by Nigeria to the west; Chad to the northeast; the Central African Republic to the east; and Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and the Republic of the Congo to the south. Cameroon's coastline lies on the Bight of Bonny, part of the Gulf of Guinea and the Atlantic Ocean. The country is called "Africa in miniature" for its geological and cultural diversity. Natural features include beaches, deserts, mountains, rainforests, and savannas. The highest point is Mount Cameroon in the southwest, and the largest cities are Douala, Yaoundé, and Garoua. Cameroon is home to over 200 different linguistic groups. The country is well known for its native styles of music, particularly makossa and bikutsi, and for its successful national football team. French and English are the official languages.Early inhabitants of the territory included the Sao civilisation around Lake Chad and the Baka hunter-gatherers in the southeastern rainforest. Portuguese explorers reached the coast in the 15th century and named the area Rio dos Camarões ("River of Prawns"), the name from which Cameroon derives. Fulani soldiers founded the Adamawa Emirate in the north in the 19th century, and various ethnic groups of the west and northwest established powerful chiefdoms and fondoms. Cameroon became a German colony in 1884.After World War I, the territory was divided between France and Britain as League of Nations mandates. The Union des Populations du Cameroun political party advocated independence but was outlawed by France in the 1950s. It waged war on French and UPC militant forces until 1971. In 1960, the French administered part of Cameroon became independent as the Republic of Cameroun under President Ahmadou Ahidjo. The southern part of British Cameroons merged with it in 1961 to form the Federal Republic of Cameroon. The country was renamed the United Republic of Cameroon in 1972 and the Republic of Cameroon in 1984.Compared to other African countries, Cameroon enjoys relatively high political and social stability. This has permitted the development of agriculture, roads, railways, and large petroleum and timber industries. Nevertheless, large numbers of Cameroonians live in poverty as subsistence farmers. Power lies firmly in the hands of the authoritarian president since 1982, Paul Biya, and his Cameroon People's Democratic Movement party. The English speaking territories of Cameroon have grown increasingly alienated from the government, and politicians from those regions have called for greater decentralization and even secession (for example: the Southern Cameroons National Council) of the former British-governed territories.
Cape Verde Islands|Off the west coast of Africa -570 km on the Atlantic- lies Cape Verde which means the green cape in spite of the fact that Cape Verde even being an island is not very green due to rainfall patterns. It is an archipelago of ten islands. The islands, cover a combined area of slightly over 4,000 km sq. The name Verde means green in Portuguese ( and Spanish) Cap Vert lies off the Senegalese Coast and means the same in French. It is a peninsula. Cabo Verde is Portuguese name for Cape Verde. The Portuguese explorer !6th Century, Diniz Dias and brother of Vasco Da Gama named the Cape Verde for the first time when he saw it on the famous trips to the  Cape of Good Hope in South Africa on his way to India to look for spices and to spread Christianity along the coasts of the lands visited. Sir Francis Drake and Charles Darwin (1832) also visited the islands which became in time quite prosperous. Drake ransacked the capital then, Ribeira Grande in the 1580s acting for the British Crown.
Central African Republic|Central African Republic (CAR) covers an area of 620 000 kilometers squared. Her population is estimated at about 4.4 million Bangui is the.The first multi-party democratic elections were held in 1993 with Ange-Félix Patassé to power. He l was overthrown in 2003 by French-backed General François Bozizé, who won an election in 2005. Unpaid workers in th e public sector went on strikes in 2007 and forced his resignation. Faustin-Archange Touadéra, was named Prime Minister in January 2008.Rich in diamonds, gold and uranium the people of this country remain poor because of its management and the usual competition which always leaves the ordinary person suffering. There are 71 languages in the Republic and one is said not to have a living mother tongue speaker.
Chad|Chad  is mostly a desert country. It is named after Lake Chad, the only large water body in the country. It is divided into several regions with a desert zone to the North, an arid middle and the more fertile Sudanese Savanna zone in the south. It lies landlocked and the desert climate gives it the feel of life not so connected with the rest of the continent. The capital of Chad is N'Djamena which was formerly known as Fort-Lamy. Chadians have Islamic, Christian and traditional believers. Chad shares a border with the troubled Sudanese Darfur region. The shared crisis has threatened the stability of Chad. There are many Dafuri and other Sudanese who live in camps in east Chad. Human populations moved into the Chadian region in great numbers in the 7th Millennium BC. Chad’s population is 10. 6 million
Congo|The Republic of the Congo known in  KiKongo as Repubilika ya Kongo and in  Lingala as  Republiki ya Kongó) is referred to especially in the past as Congo-Brazzaville. The country lies in Central Africa. It is bordered by the Central African Republic, Gabon and  Cameroon and the DRC formerly known as Zaire in the times of Mobotu. It is also bordered by province of Cabinda and and the Gulf of Guinea.The region was dominated by Bantu-speaking peoples Who engaged in trade in the Congo Basin and other areas. IT was formerly a French colony and gained independence in 1960.  There are 62 languages in Congo Brazaville.
Ivory Coast|Cote d’Ivoire, known as Ivory Coast is in West Africa. It has an area of 322,462 square kilometers. It borders Burkina Faso, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia and Mali. The Gulf of Guinea is in its southern border. The population of  Côte d'Ivoire's was at 20,617,068 in 2009. Ivory Coast became a French colony after the Sramble for Africa in 1884 The official language is French. Boule.  Baoulé, Dioula, Dan, Anyin and Cebaara Senufo are local languages that are widely  used.
Democratic Republic of the Congo|The DRC is the 12th largest country in the world. It has a population of nearly 71 million. The country has a short Atlantic coastline measuring 40 km. The DRC is a Francophone country. It is bordered by the Republic of the Congo to the west. Zambia and Angola border the DRC to the South and Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi to the east with Tanzania making a short part of the boundary. To the North the DRC shares borders with Sudan and the Central African Republic. To the east  lies Tanzania and to the west the Atlantic Ocean. There the Cong River opens into a 9 km delta into the Gulf of Guinea. The country was also for  a few years called Zaire as was the choice of Mobotu Sesseko, a dictator. The country is wealthy and is economically affiliated to South Africa. The DRC is a member of the South African Development Community (SADC). In 1998, the second war begun. Several countries were involved. A peace accord was signed in 2003 but fighting continued in the east. The country has been called the worst with the regard to the rate of rape. UN soldier failed to protect the civilians and some of them raped local women in the year 2011.
Djibouti|Right in the Horn of Africa, Djibouti is bordered by The Red Sea and the Gulf of Eden to the East, Eritrea in the north, Ethiopia to the west and south and Somalia to the south east. Djibouti is sparsely populated, with almost a million inhabitants only. The predominant religiou of Djibouti is Islam. Only 6% are practising Christians. In the past it was known as French Somaliland and also Obock. IN 1967, the country changed its name to Afars and Issas after some new treaties with France. When in 1977, she became independent, the country went on to use the name The Repulic of Djibouti. Djibouti is the main city of the country.  In 1977, Djibouti joined the United Nations. Djibouti is an independent nation but she retains deep French relations. From France, Djibouti receives economic assistance but French is spoken by a minority. The best known writer from Djibouti is Waberi Abdourahman.
Egypt|Hieroglyphic scripts are the earliest known forms of writing. Egypt earliest samples of writing are from the year 3 400 BC. Hieroglyphs were last used in 396 AD. “mdwt ntr” (god’s words) is said to be an ancient scirpt made by Thoth, a god. The Ancient Egyptians believed that writing came to them Thoth a god. They believed that Thoth gave them that script. Egypt is known as The Arab Republic of Egypt. It is the only transcontinental country in Africa. Egypt is powerful in Africa, the Middle East, the Mediterranean Basin and in Asia. Her neighbours are the Gaza Strip and Israel to the northeast, Sudan to the south, the Mediterranean Sea to the north, the Red Sea to the east, Libya to the west. Area: 1,010,00 sq k. but people live mainly in some 40, 000 sq k near the banks of the River Nile. Population 80 million. About 40 million people live in the cities: Cairo, Alexandria, Suez and other cities in the Nile Delta.12% of the working force is in the tourism industry. Her history is well known and studied in many parts of the world. Her monuments made her famous. The Great Sphinx and Giza pyramid complex are well known. She has ancient ruins. The ruins of the Nubia area have been lost after the construction of the Aswan Dam.Tahrir (Freedom) Square is now known all over the world as a place of strong resistance to oppression. In early 2011, there was a great revolution following a similar one in Tunisia. After 30 years in power, President Hosni Mubarak was ousted and Egypt turned over a new era in the Arab Spring.
Equatorial Guinea|Equatorial Guinea was known initially as Formosa, the beautiful one but became Spanish Guinea as the only Spanish colony on the continent. The country is situated south of the equator. Equatorial Guinea has a coastline on the Gulf of Guinea and to the north is bordered by Cameroon and Gabon to the south and east. The country is 28,000 square kilometres and one of the smallest on the continent with a population of 650, 702. It is a beautiful country with the bounty of oil and has a high per capita income, as high as France’s in the past. It has the 28th largest Gross Domestic Product. However, most of the population lives in poverty and due to a history of dictatorial management, over a third of Guineans left the country to live mainly in Spain, Latin America and other countries of Europe.  The human rights record of Equatorial Guinea is atrocious but in the Human Development Index and 115th overall in the world. The sad history of how oil companies and individuals of countries in the west took advantage of the finding of petroleum in Equatorial Guinea to corruptly influence the economy is a study on how poor governance and international mineral cartels can subject a population to poverty even when they have resources.
Eritrea|Eritrea as the Erythrean sea took its name from a Greek name which means “red land”. To the west of Eritrea is Sudan, Ethiopia to the south and Djibouti to the southeast. Eritrea has an extensive Red Sea coastline and directly across are Yemen and Saudi Arabia. Eritrea is approximately 11 600 kilometers  squared. The population is 6 million. The US had imposed a federation of Eritrea and Ethiopia in 1952 causing a 30 year war with Eritrea gaining back her independence in 1993. The capital of Eritrea is Asmara. Freedom of Expression organization rate Eritrea poorly. There are 13 languages in Asmara. One has no living speakers. The literacy rate is 37%
Ethiopia|Ethiopia, officially known as the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, is a country located in the Horn of Africa. It is the second-most populous nation in Africa, with over 82 million inhabitants, and the tenth-largest by area, occupying 1,100,000 km2. Ethiopia is bordered by Eritrea to the north, Djibouti and Somalia to the east, Sudan and South Sudan to the west, and Kenya to the south. With its capital at Addis Ababa, it is also the most populous landlocked nation in the world.Ethiopia was a monarchy for most of its history, and the Ethiopian dynasty traces its roots to the 2nd century BC. Ethiopia is also one of the oldest sites of human existence known to scientists today, having yielded some of humanity's oldest traces. It may be the region from which Homo sapiens first set out for the Middle East and points beyond. Alongside Rome, China and Persia, the Ethiopian Aksum Empire was considered one of the four great world powers of the 3rd century. During the Scramble for Africa, Ethiopia was only African country beside Liberia that retained its sovereignty as a recognized independent country, and was one of only four African members of the League of Nations. After a brief period of Italian occupation, Ethiopia became a charter member of the United Nations. When other African nations received their independence following World War II, many of them adopted the colors of Ethiopia's flag, and Addis Ababa became the location of several international organizations focused on Africa.Modern Ethiopia and its current borders are a result of significant territorial reduction in the north and expansion in the south toward its present borders, owing to several migrations and commercial integration as well as conquests, particularly by Emperor Menelik II and Ras Gobena. In 1974, the dynasty led by Haile Selassie was overthrown as civil wars intensified. Since then, Ethiopia has seen a variety of governmental systems. Ethiopia is one of the founding members of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), G-77 and the Organisation of African Unity (OAU). Today, Addis Ababa is still the headquarters of the African Union, the Pan African Chamber of Commerce (PACCI) and UNECA. The country has one of the most powerful militaries in Africa and Addis Ababa is the headquarters of the continental African Standby Force (ASF). Ethiopia is one of a handful of African countries where an indigenous alphabet is still widely used. Ethiopia also has its own time system and unique calendar, seven to eight years behind the Gregorian Calendar. It has the largest number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Africa.The country is a land of natural contrasts, with waterfalls and volcanic hot springs. Ethiopia has some of Africa's highest mountains as well as some of the world's lowest points below sea level. The largest cave in Africa is located in Ethiopia at Sof Omar. Ethiopia has one of the largest number of rivers in the world while the country's northernmost area at Dallol, Afar is the hottest place year-round anywhere on Earth. Ethiopia is a multilingual, multicultural and multiethnic society of around 80 groups, with the two largest being the Oromo and the Amhara, both of which speak Afro-Asiatic languages. The country is also famous for its Olympic gold medalists in running, rock-hewn churches in Lalibela, and as the place where the coffee bean originated. Currently, Ethiopia is the top coffee and honey-producing country in Africa, and home to the largest livestock population in Africa. The Ethiopian Aksum region was the first major empire in the world to convert to Christianity and it was one of the first countries to officially adopt Christianity as a state religion in the 4th century. Ethiopia has a Christian majority and a third of the population is Muslim. Ethiopia is the site of the first hijra in Islamic history and the oldest Muslim settlement in Africa at Negash. Until the 1980s, a substantial population of Ethiopian Jews resided in Ethiopia. The country is also the spiritual homeland of the Rastafari religious movement.Ethiopia, which has Africa's second biggest hydropower potential, is the source of over 85% of the total Nile water flow and contains rich soils, but it nevertheless underwent a series of famines in the 1980s, exacerbated by adverse geopolitics and civil wars, resulting in the death of hundreds of thousands. Slowly, however, the country has begun to recover, and today Ethiopia has the biggest economy by GDP in East Africa and Central Africa.  as the Ethiopian economy is also one of the fastest growing in the world. It is a regional powerhouse in the Horn and east Africa. Recently, human rights abuses have been reported in Ethiopia, however under Premier Meles Zenawi the country has become a leading economic, diplomatic and political force in Africa
Gabon|Gabon shares borders with Equatorial Guinea to the northwest, Cameroon to the north, and to the south and east with the Republic of the Congo. To the west is the Gulf of Guinea. The population of Gabon is 1 500 000 and she covers an area of about 270 000 kilometers squared. Libreville is the capital city. Gabon gained independence from France in 1960. Gabon has ushered in certain constitutional reforms since then. It is one of the most prosperous countries of Africa with a high Human Development Index and the third highest per capita income after Botswana and Equatorial Guinea. Gabon has 42 languages
Gambia|The Republic of The Gambia, commonly referred to as The Gambia, or Gambia is a country in West Africa. Gambia is the smallest country on mainland Africa, surrounded by Senegal except for a short coastline on the Atlantic Ocean in the west.The country is situated around the Gambia River, the nation's namesake, which flows through the country's centre and empties into the Atlantic Ocean. Its area is almost 10,500 km² with an estimated population of 1,700,000.On 18 February 1965, Gambia gained independence from the United Kingdom and joined The Commonwealth. Banjul is Gambia's capital, but the largest conurbations are Serekunda and Brikama.Gambia shares historical roots with many other West African nations in the slave trade, which was the key factor in the placing and keeping of a colony on the Gambia River, first by the Portuguese and later by the British. Since gaining independence in 1965, Gambia has enjoyed relative political stability, with the exception of a brief period of military rule in 1994.An agriculturally fertile country, its economy is dominated by farming, fishing, and tourism. About a third of the population lives below the international poverty line of US$1.25 a day.The number of individual languages listed for Gambia is 11. Of those, 10 are living languages and 1 is a second language without mother-tongue speakers.
Ghana|Ghana means“warrior king”. This country is respected for  Kwame Nkurumah the first Republic of Ghana, was a composed and focused leader. Ghana is located in West Africa. It shares borders with Côte d'Ivoire to the West, Gulf of Guinea to the south, Burkina Faso to the north and Togo to the east.Akan kingdoms,  Ashanti Empire, the Akwamu, the Akyem, the Bonoman, the Denkyira, and the Fante inhabited the land.  Non-Akan states created by the Ga and Ewe also existed as did states by the Gonja, Dagomba and others. Prior to contact with Europeans trade between the Akan and various African states flourished due to Akan's gold wealth. Trade with European states began after contact with the Portuguese in the 15th century, and the British established the Gold Coast Crown colony in 1874 over parts but not all of the country.[7]The Gold Coast achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1957, becoming the first sub-Saharan African nation to do so, and the name Ghana was chosen for the new nation to reflect the ancient Empire of Ghana, which once extended throughout much of west Africa. Ghana is a member of the South Atlantic Peace and Cooperation Zone, the Commonwealth of Nations, the Economic Community of West African States, the African Union, and an associate member of La Francophonie. Ghana is the second largest producer of cocoa in the world and is home to Lake Volta, the largest artificial lake in the world by surface area. The economy of Ghana has been listed as The World's Fastest Growing Economy in 2011 with an economic growth of about 20.146 % for the year 2011 in economic research led by Economy
Guinea|Guinea was formerly known as French Guinea and today it is sometimes called Guinea Conakry so that it is not mixed up with its neighbour  Guinea-Bissau.  Conakry is the capital of Guinea. Other cities include: Nzérékoré, Labe Kindia, Mamou, Kankan Boke, and Guéckédou. Guinea is in West Africa. It has a population of 10 million people. Guinea is only 246,000 kilometers squared. It forms a crescent by curving from its western border the Atlantic Ocean to the east and the south. Senegal and Mali lie to the north. To the south are Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Côte d'Ivoire. The mouth of the Niger River is in Guinea.The literacy rate of Guinea is very low being 18.1% for females and 29% for males. Many children in Guinea do not go to school at all although Primary School is compulsory for 8 years. Some start very late and drop out fast. Girls are kept at home to assist with domestic work and farm labour.French was the only language used in business and schools. It is understood by 21% to 25%. Guinea has 25 languages.
Guinea-Bissau|The Republic of Guinea-Bissau  (Portuguese: República da Guiné-Bissau, pronounced: ) is a country in West Africa. It is bordered by Senegal to the north and Guinea to the south and east, with the Atlantic Ocean to its west. It covers 36,125 km² (nearly 14,000 sq mi) with an estimated population of 1,600,000. Guinea-Bissau was once part of the kingdom of Gabu, as well as part of the Mali Empire. Parts of this kingdom persisted until the 18th century, while a few others were part of the Portuguese Empire since the 16th century. It then became the Portuguese colony of Portuguese Guinea in the 19th century. Upon independence, declared in 1973 and recognised in 1974, the name of its capital, Bissau, was added to the country's name to prevent confusion with the bordering Republic of Guinea. Only 14% of the population speaks the official language, Portuguese. A plurality of the population (44%) speaks Kriol, a Portuguese-based creole language, and the remainder speak native African languages. The main religions are African traditional religions and Islam, and there is a Christian (mostly Catholic) minority. Guinea-Bissau is a member of the African Union, Economic Community of West African States, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the Latin Union, Community of Portuguese Language Countries, La Francophonie and the South Atlantic Peace and Cooperation Zone. The country's per-capita gross domestic product is one of the lowest in the world.
Kenya|The first literary book that tested the first African Kenyan government commitment to free dom of expression was a book of poems in Kiswahili: Sauti ya Dhiki ( Voice of Sorrow) by Abdulatif Abdalla. Kenyatta had the messenger but not the message detained. Among Kenya’s strongest dissdents have been writers who wielded not only strong pens but also wills of steel as they spoke what they wrote and in some cases dramatized it. The Trial of Dedan Kimaathi by Micere Mugo and Ngugi Wa Thiong’o was too strong for President Moi. At the same time faces and words became easy to link. The people were asking for more as happened in Kamirithu peoples’ theatre. The two authors have lived in exile since. The attempt of Ngugi Wa Thiong’o to return after the Moi regime was over, was thwarted by incredible machinations of the former regime which led to his own as well as wife’s beatings, thefts and rape in 2003. Kenya named after its highest peak Mt. Kenya lies on the equator. Mt. Kenya is Africa’s second highest peak.  She shares borders with Ethiopia to the North, Somali to the North East, and Uganda to the west. Kenya has a long coastline with the Indian Ocean to its south-east. Tanzania lies to the South and South Sudan to the north west.Kenya has a land area of 580,000 km2 and a population of nearly 41 million. The people of Kenya gave themselves a new constitution on the 27th of August 2010. Before then, the nation which fought and won independence from the British on 12th December 1963 had been ruled by the Lancaster constitution, passed in England, and hundreds of times amended by the powerful. The result of the new constitution is far reaching. Kenya will be governed by governors in the 47 counties which will be not be governed from Nairobi, the capital city. This is devolution of power. Kenya’s literature is as diverse as its many peoples. Oral literature belonged to all but only parts of it is recorded. Published and well known literature is in Kiswahili language. English language forms such as the novel, written drama and short stories began to exist after the coming of independence with the first novels being: The River Between, Grace Ogot appearing in 1964.
Lesotho|Lesotho is surrounded on all sides by South Africa. She is a small country about 30,000 kilometers squared. Her population is 2 067 000. The name of the country means the land of Sotho speakers. Maseru is the capital of Lesotho.
Liberia|At first named Monrovia and after the first president of America George Monroe, Liberia is bordered by Sierra Leone on the west, Guinea Conakry to the north and Ivory Coast to the east. Liberia has a long coastline. Liberia covers an area of 111,369 kilometers squared. The country which is mainly forest and grasslands is sparsely populated. There are 3.7 million people. Liberia was populated by freed slaves from America at the beginning of 1820. This was a search for more freedom in Africa after being freed. Slaves were not repatriated. In 1847, these colonists founded the Republic of Liberia, establishing a government modeled on that of the United States. The few Americans who settle there dominated the economy of the country with the indigenous people, the majority, falling behind. Liberia is  founding member of United Nations and the Organization of African Unity. In 1980, a military coup overthrew the Americo – Liberian power. This was followed by two civil wars that left over 250 000 people dead. The country’s economy was in a shambles. Democratic elections were held in 2005.
Libya|Libya  Is bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, Egypt to the east, Sudan to the southeast and to the south Chad and Niger. Tunisia and Algeria are to the west of Libya. Tripoli is the capital of Libya. The country was led by Muammar Gadafi for 42 years. Libya has a population of 6.4 million people. Libya has large oil preserves. After the ouster of Muammar Gadafi Libya has been led by the National Transitional Council. It is expected that a representative legislature will follow the revolution and civil war that took place in the country between February to October 2011 following the start of the Arab Spring in Tunisia. In ancient times merchants of Tyre known as Phoenicians traded with the Berber people of Libya. This happened in the 5the century BC. The region was prosperous and later was conquered by the Romans under Augustus. According to Wikipedia, Libya did not participate much in the The Arab Renaissance (Al-Nahda) of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Libya developed her own literary tradition and as in many regions of Africa and other civilizations, was based on oral literature. Benghazi was an important literary centre as it was a capital in the early years. The universities there influenced these events. Derna was also famous for literary activities. Eastern Libya, close to Alexandria of Egypt of the olden times continues being the place of inspiration in Libya. Much of Libya’s literary work is themed on the Italian occupation and the struggle for independence. Wealth distribution is a topic of interest in a country with a high Gross Domestic Product and save for the poor human rights record would have been unhindered on its rise to human development. Muammar Gaddafi through a coup took power in 1969. Then literature of praise started. Not much of Libya’s literature is translated from Arabic and other languages. Ibrahim Al –Kouni is the best known author outside of Libya.
Madagascar|Fomerly known as Malagasy, Madagascar  or Madagasikara in Malagasy is an island off the Southern African coast on the Indian Ocean. The island is kilometres (226,658 sq mi), and it is the fourth-largest island in the world) and is an archipelago. The early people of Madagascar were from Borneo and mainland Africa. In time they were joined by Arabs, Malay, Javanese, Indian and French people. The capital of Madagascar is Antananarivo.  The population is 20 million.
Malawi|The Republic of Malawi is a landlocked country in southeast Africa that was formerly known as Nyasaland. It is bordered by Zambia to the northwest, Tanzania to the northeast, and Mozambique on the east, south and west. The country is separated from Tanzania and Mozambique by Lake Malawi. Malawi is over 118,000 km2 (45,560 sq mi) with an estimated population of more than 13,900,000. Its capital is Lilongwe, the largest city is Blantyre and the second largest city is Mzuzu. The name Malawi comes from the Maravi, an old name of the Nyanja people that inhabit the area. The country is also nicknamed, "The Warm Heart of Africa".[8]The area of Africa now known as Malawi was colonized by migrating tribes of Bantu around the 10th century. In 1891 the area was colonized again, this time by the British. In 1953 Malawi, then known as Nyasaland, became part of the semi-independent Central African Federation (CAF). The Federation was dissolved in 1963 and in 1964, Nyasaland gained full independence and was renamed Malawi. Upon gaining independence it became a single-party state under the presidency of Hastings Banda, who remained president until 1994, when he was ousted from power. Bingu Mutharika, elected in 2004, is the current president. Malawi has a democratic, multi-party government. Malawi has a small military force that includes an army, a navy and an air wing. Malawi's foreign policy is pro-Western and includes positive diplomatic relations with most countries and participation in several international organizations.Malawi is among the world's least developed countries. The economy is heavily based in agriculture, with a largely rural population. The Malawian government depends heavily on outside aid to meet development needs, although this need (and the aid offered) has decreased since 2000. The Malawian government faces challenges in building and expanding the economy, improving education, health care, environmental protection, and becoming financially independent. Malawi has several programs developed since 2005 that focus on these issues, and the country's outlook appears to be improving, with improvements in economic growth, education and healthcare seen in 2007 and 2008.Malawi has a low life expectancy and high infant mortality. There is a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS, which is a drain on the labor force and government expenditures, and is expected to have a significant impact on gross domestic product (GDP) by 2010. There is a diverse population of native peoples, Asians and Europeans, with several languages spoken and an array of religious beliefs. Although there was tribal conflict in the past, by 2008 it had diminished considerably and the concept of a Malawian nationality had begun to form. Malawi has a culture combining native and colonial aspects, including sports, art, dance and music.
Mali|Mali borders Algeria on the north, Burkina Faso and the Côte d'Ivoire on the south, Niger to the east, Guinea on the south-west and Senegal and Mauritania on the west. Mali has a population of 14. 5 million. The capital is Bamako. Much of the north of Mali is in the Sahara desert. France made the country her colony. In 1960 Mali achieved her independence. Mali was the name of a kingdom. This is the land where griots orally kept the treasure trove of history for years. The story of Sundiata of Old mali or Sogolon Djata was learned early in Kenya and one presupposes other countries of Africa. Mali has 56 languages and of these, one has no mother tongue speakers.
Mauritania|Mauritania is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean in the west and the Western Sahara in the north and Algeria in the southeast and Senegal in the southwest. There was an ancient kingdom of Mauretania which became a province of the Roman Empire. Today’s Mauritania spreads southwards beyond where the kingdom was. Nouakchott is the capital of Mauritania and it is on the Atlantic coast. The number of individual languages listed for Mauritania is 6. Of those, all are living languages.
Morocco|Morocco, officially the Kingdom of Morocco is a country located in North Africa. It has a population of more than 35 million and an area of 710,850 km², and also primarily administers the disputed region of theWestern Sahara. It is part of the Maghreb region, in addition to Tunisia, Algeria, Mauritania, and Libya, with which it shares cultural, historical and linguistic ties.Morocco is a constitutional monarchy with an elected parliament. The King of Morocco holds vast executive powers, including the possibility of dissolving the parliament. Executive power is exercised by the government but more importantly by the king himself.Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament, the Assembly of Representatives and the Assembly of Councillors. The king can also issue decrees called dahirs which have the force of law. Parliamentary elections were held in Morocco on 7 September 2007, and were considered by some neutral observers to be mostly free and fair; although voter turnout was estimated to be 37%, the lowest in decades. The political capital is Rabat, and the largest city is Casablanca; other large cities include Marrakesh,Tetouan, Tangier, Salé, Fes, Agadir, Meknes and Oujda. Most Moroccans natively speak either Moroccan Arabic or one of the Berber languages as a mother tongue. Both languages have regional dialects and accents. Hassaniya Arabic is also spoken natively in the southern parts of the country.
Mozambique|Mozambique, officially the Republic of Mozambique, is a country in southeastern Africa bordered by the Indian Ocean to the east, Tanzania to the north, Malawi and Zambia to the northwest, Zimbabwe to the west and Swaziland and South Africa to the southwest. The capital city is Maputo, formerly known as Lourenço Marques.Between the 1st and 5th centuries AD, Bantu-speaking peoples migrated from farther north and west. Swahili, and later also Arab, commercial ports existed along the coasts until the arrival of Europeans. The area was explored by Vasco da Gama in 1498 and colonized by Portugal in 1505. Mozambique became independent in 1975, and became the People's Republic of Mozambique shortly thereafter. It was the scene of an intense civil war lasting from 1977 to 1992.Mozambique is endowed with rich and extensive natural resources. The country's economy is based largely on agriculture, but with industry, mainly food and beverages, chemical manufacturing, aluminium and petroleum production, is growing fast. The country's tourism sector is also growing. South Africa is Mozambique's main trading partner and source of foreign direct investment. Belgium, Spain, and Portugal are also among the country's most important partners. Since 2001 Mozambique is one of the world's top ten for annual average GDP growth. However, Mozambique still has one of the lowest GDP per capita, one of the worst human development index and one of the highest inequality in the world.The only official language of Mozambique is Portuguese, with roughly half of the population speaking it as a second language and few as a first language. Languages widely spoken natively include Swahili, Makhuwa, and Sena. The largest religion in Mozambique is Christianity, with significant Muslim and African traditional religious minorities. Mozambique is a member of the African Union, Commonwealth of Nations, the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, the Latin Union, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and Southern African Development Community.
Namibia|Namibia is bordered by Angola, and Zambia to the North, Botswana to the east and South Africa to the south and east. Its western border is the Atlantic Ocean. Namibia gained independence from South Africa in 1990 following the Namibian War of Independence. Windhoek is the capital of Namibia. With the Berlin Conference of 1884, Namibia became and Imperial Protectorate and remained a German. At the end of the First World War, Namibia was put under South Africa by League of Nations. It fell under apartheid policy from 1948. Namibia has a population of 2.1 million people. Coming after Mongolia, Namibia is the second least sparsely populated country in the world following Mongolia. The number of individual languages listed for Namibia is 28. Of those, all are living languages.
Niger|Niger is named after the Niger River. It borders Burkina Faso and Mali to the west, Nigeria and Benin to the south, Algeria and Libya to the north and Chad to the east. Niger covers a land area of almost 1 270 000 kilometers squared making it the largest nation in West Africa. More than 80 percent of its land surface area is the Sahara desert. The population is 15 000 000 and lives mainly in the south and the west of the country. Niamey is the capital and it is in the south west region of Niger.Niger is landlocked and disadvantaged by hostile desert conditions. The peoples that make the population have long and diverse histories and this has been exploited against country’s governance and development. Niger has had three stints of military rule after coups.  Access to education is under tough conditions in Niger. She continues to have a poor rural population and small chances of making the land grow steadily.
Nigeria|Excerpts from an Essay in Ngugi Wa Thiong’o’s Decolonising the Mind, Language in African literature: Chinua Achebe“I feel that the English language will be able to carry the weight of my African experience. But it will have to be a new English, still in full communion with its ancestral home but altered to suti new African surroundings.”Ngugi Wa Thiong’o“How did we arrive at the fatalistic acceptance of  the unassaiblable position of English in our Literature.... Berlin of 1884 was effected by the sword and the bullet. But the night of the sword and the bullet was followed by the morning of the chalk and the blackboard. The physical violence o fthe battlefield was followed by the psychological violence of the classroom. But where the former was visibly brutal, the latter was visibly gentle, a process best described in Cheikh Hamidou Kane’s novel Ambiguous Adventure where he talks of the method of the colonial phase of imperialist as consisting of knowing how to kill with efficiency and to heal with the same art.” In the essay, The language of African Literature in Decolonising the MindTony Mochama, journalist and writer: “My mother tongue language? No thanks.”In cyberscpace a blogger is questioning Nigeria’s literary output in an interesting way. Nigeria’s literature is recognize in Africa as dynamic and noteworthy. Nigeria is the home of the Nobel Prize for Literature, Wole Soyinka and the famed novelist Chinua Achebe. The Vanguard  News wants us to go beyond what is seen as the dictates of the local limitations. The voice of the poet is remembered and needed because, I quote the article by Obi Nwakanma  “As most people now probably know, the emergence of a literary culture in Nigeria was first, an act of resistance in the anti-colonial nationalist phase of our history. It was an era defined by the poetry of Nnamdi Azikiwe and Dennis Osadebe, and deployed to the public spirit of the era: the call towards a unifying spirit of a nation. We feel that call in the rhetoric of the poetry that said, “Africa Sings” or that sang an ode to the “land of the rising sun.” As the famous Nigerian poet, critic and scholar MJC Echeruo has noted, Azikiwe’s poetry particularly rested at a most intriguing nexus that harmonised the airs of late Victorian manners and early 20th century resistance imagination. It was at the edge of the Harlem renaissance, and the power in that poetry is not so much in its letters as in its spirit – the spirit of the age of African and global black restoration: a highly modernist moment.” http://www.vanguardngr.com/2011/07/new-nigerian-writers-are-in-need-of-spirit/ Nigeria has the highest population in Africa and is a powerhouse of the written and spoken word. Film is telling that story in Nollywood too. It is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. Nigeria is in West Africa and shares borders with Benin in the west, Chad and Cameroon in the east, and Niger in the north. Its coast in the south lies on the Gulf of Guinea on the Atlantic Ocean. 9000 BCE is the year said  to mark human habitation in Nigeria. Wikipedia- “The area around the Benue and Cross River is thought to be the original homeland of the Bantu migrants who spread across most of central and southern Africa in waves between the 1st millennium BCE and the 2nd millennium. The name Nigeria was taken from the Niger River running through the country. This name was coined by Flora Shaw, the future wife of Baron Lugard, a British colonial administrator, in the late 19th century.” There are 527 in Nigeria Two of these are second languages without mother-tongue speakers, and 11 have no known speakers.
Rwanda|Rwanda is in Central Eastern Africa and an immediate neighbour of Burundi both in Geography and history. The peoples of the two countries share language and culture. Her other neighbours are Uganda, Tanzania and the DRC. Since 1994 when Rwanda experienced the genocide that shocked the modern world, there has been much progress in terms of healing and holding the nation together. Indeed Rwanda has taken advantage of modern technology connecting all the schools in the country to internet. Formerly, French was the official language of Rwanda which was colonized by both Germany and Belgium the former during the Scramble for Africa and the latter taking the country after the first World War. European nations perpetuated the Tutsi policy. In the genocide of 1994, European nations stood accused for not intervening. The Vatican was also on the spot in a largely Catholic faith confessing land. The Hutu had resisted and in 1962 established a Hutu State. In 1990, the Tutsi-led Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) began a civil war. The genocide followed. Hutu extremists killed an estimated 500,000 to 1 million Tutsi and moderate Hutu. The Rwandan Patriotic Front ended the genocide and got a military victory.
Sao Tome and Principe| São Tomé and Príncipe lie off the coast of Central Africa respectively.  Principe and Sao Tome are the two islands that make up the country. They lie apart with a distance of 142 km. Sao Tome means Saint Thomas, a name given to the island by the Portuguese because they arrived on the island on the day of his commemoration. The population of Sao Tome is 163 000. The country is only larger than the Seychelles in Africa. There are four languages spoken in Sao Tome.
Senegal|Senegal is named after a river, Sénégal River, but its name has an etymology of which is contested David Boilat in the 19th Century proposed that this name means “Our canoe” in Wolof which would be this phrase: suñu gaal, which means "our canoe" . Like many places in Africa, the naming of countries, mountains, rivers came to be known to the West through the eyes of westners so that in some names are said to be a result of misprounciations by the visitors. Senegal and not Sunugaal. Some also believe that is believed that the word "Senegal" comes from two Serer words: "Sene" Supreme deity and a people called  Rog Sene. In Serer Religion, the River is sacred and offerings are made to it. Everything is sacred and everything is assigned to the Supreme Deity. There is a documented debate on the meaning of the name Senegal but as often happens, charm wins.  "Our canoe" is  frequently referred to. Senegal impresses one with its friendliness. Its people are welcoming. There is also a sense of movement as one can sail to the sea. There is a sense of literary power. Leopold Sedar Senghor, first president of independent Senegal wrote captivating even if controversial poetry in the Negritude movement. Senegal became independent from France in 1960. There is a sense of history, sad history as the Isle de Goree where the slaves left from the door of no return is impressive. Dakar is the capital of Senegal. It is situated on the Cape Vert peninsula. Five hundred miles from Dakar are the Cape Verde Islands Senegal Atlantic Ocean to the west, Mauritania to the north, Mali to the east, and Guinea and Guinea-Bissau to the south; internally it almost completely surrounds The Gambia, namely on the north, east and south, exempting Gambia's short Atlantic Ocean coastline. Senegal covers a land area of almost 197,000 square kilometres (76,000 sq mi).The literacy rate of Dakar is : 39.3%, 51.1% men, 29.2% women. The country has a population figure of over 11 million people.
Seychelles|Seychelles is formed by 115 islands and is therefore an archipelago. It is a country in the Indian Ocean, some 1,500 kilometres  east of Africa. It lies northeast of Madagascar. Zanzibar lies to the west and Mauritius to the south. Reunion, not Africa, lies to the south and the Comoros to the southwest. Seychelles is the smallest African country with only a population of 86 525. She has the highest Human Development Index in Africa. Three languages are spoken in the Seychelles, namely:
Sierra Leone|Sierra Leone is bordered by Guinea to the north and east, the Atlantic to the west and southwest. Liberia lies to the southeast of Sierra Leone a country that covers a total area of 71 740 km2.  The population is 5.4 and 6.4 million. According to a Wikipedia article, Sierra Leone is ranked as one of the most religiously tolerant nations in the world. People are often married across tribal and religious boundaries. Muslims and Christians collaborate and interact with each other peacefully. Religious violence is very rare in the country.Between 1991 and 2002 the Sierra Leone had a civil war that left more than 50,000 people dead. Sierra Leone has 25 languages. Of those, 24 are living languages and 1 is a second language without mother-tongue speakers.
Somalia|In antiquity, Somalia was an important centre for commerce with the rest of the ancient world. Indeed the people of Somalia are recognized in the Horn of Africa and the eastern African region as formidable traders.  Even as a failed state, Somalia makes money. The country’s economy thrives on telecommunication, livestock and money remittances from the diaspora Somali who are in vast numbers all over the world. Somali creative writers are active and they have seven centres of PEN for the defence of Freedom of Expression in different parts of the world.  The fabled land of Puntland or the land of God some say was located in Somalia today one of the world’s most violent states. Violence and instability have brought in more poverty and this coupled with inclement desert weather has devastated Somalia. Puntland separated itself and is not recognized by all countries but has remained more peaceful than the rest of the Somaliland. Named after its peoples, the country which during the Middle Ages had several powerful empires does not appear close to achieving peace in the 21st century. In the late nineteenth century, the British and Italians gained control of parts of the coast, and established British Somaliland. Somalia had succeeded in repulsing the British Empire four times but the Empire used planes against the Dervish State which was fighting back. Italy also acquired control in parts from 1927. In 1941 the land was turned over to Britain. In 1960, the two regions formed an independent Somali Republic. In 1969, a coup saw Mohamed Siad Barre to power. Somalia now a Democratic Republic would never be the same again. Since outbreak of the Somali Civil War in 1991 in Somalia there have been great efforts based in Nairobi to bring different factions to make peace in Somalia but to no avail. Now Kenya and Somalia are warring over the the Al Shabaab which controls Somalia but spread throughout the region. The internationally recognized Transitional Federal Government controls only a small part of the country. An election is anticipated in 2012 when the mandate of the TSG which works only in parts of Somalia ceases to have the mandate. Somalia lies in the eastern-most part of Africa. It is bordered by Kenya to the south west, Djibouti to the northwestthe Gulf of Aden withYemen to the north, the Indian Ocean to the east, and Ethiopia to the west. It has the longest coastline on the Indian Ocean in Africa. The coastline is teeming with unusual fish and trawl fishing is carried out by powerful nations of the world and the Somali pirates have seen this as a threat and an opportunity.
South Africa|South Africa is the richest country in Africa and the world’s 3rd. South Africa is multi-ethnic and has diverse cultures and languages. Eleven official languages are recognised in the constitution. English is commonly used in public and commercial life, it is only the fifth most-spoken home language. All ethnic and language groups have political representation in the country's constitutional democracy comprising a parliamentary republic; unlike most parliamentary republics, the positions of head of state and head of government are merged in a parliament-dependent President.The history of South Africa is marked deeply by the prolonged struggle for freedom from Apartheid (legalized race division in all sectors of life) which was finally won. Nelson Mandela became the world’s most famous ex prisoner and president. He and De Klerk shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 1994 in recognition of their work towards the end of one of the worst types of governance ever to occur in world history.  Music and poetry played a big role in the liberation of South Africa. Hugh Masekela and Miriam Makeba and many others went into exile and sang against injustice with many. Writer Alan Paton’s Cry, the Beloved Country was the book that left many a young African emotionally disturbed by the situation in South Africa. Writers such as Dennis Brutus, Alex Laguma, Peter Abrahams, Steve Biko opened vast panoramas in their works against apartheid. About 79.5% can be divided among a variety of ethnic groups speaking different Bantu languages, nine of which have official status.South Africa is ranked as an upper-middle income economy by the World Bank, one of only four countries in Africa in this category (the others being Botswana, Gabon and Mauritius) About a quarter of the population  in abject poverty. South African literature is rich and varied
South Sudan|South Sudan is a new country (9 July 2011) after a split with north Sudan. South Sudan borders Kenya to the northeast, Ethiopia to the east, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda to the west. Languages of Sudan are 142. 133 of these are living languages.
Sudan|North Sudan is a new country since July 9 2009 . She is a neighbor of Egypt to the north, the Red Sea to the northeast, Eritrea and Ethiopia to the east and South Sudan to the south. To the South west she shares borders with the Central African Republic and Chad to the west and Libya to the north east. The Nile flows through the middle of the country. Sudan shares ancient history with Egypt and other lands. In 1955 -1972, Sudan had war resulting from conflicts between the Muslim Arab and Arabized northern Sudanese and the people of the south most of whom are Christians. There was a second Sudanese war in 1983.  South Sudan ceded in 2011.Languages spoken in Sudan
Swaziland|Swaziland is bordered by Mozambique to the east and north , south and west by south Africa. The other names of the country are Swatini and Ngwane. The country is named after Mswati II and the people are called the people of Swati.The length of Swaziland is 200 kilometres and the south and the breadth 130 kilometres
Tanzania|Situated in East Africa and the only country of Africa that uses Kiswahili not only as an official language but also a language of instruction in schools, Tanzania or Jamhuri ya Muungano wa Tanzania in Kiswahili is bordered  Kenya and Uganda to the North, DRC, Rwanda, Burundi  and Zambia to the west. Tanzania has a long coastline on the Indian Ocean. Tanzania was known as Tanganyika until it united with the island of Zanzibar in 1964.The number of languages spoken in Tanzania is 129. It is said one of these languages has no known speakers.
Togo|Togo is bordered by Ghana to the west, Benin to the east and Burkina Faso to the north. The capital of Togo is Lome. The country covers 57,000 square kilometres and has a population of 6.7 million. The country regained freedom in 1960 after colonization by France. The number of languages spoken in Togo is 39.
Tunisia|Tunisia, is the northernmost country in Africa. It is a Maghreb country and is bordered by Algeria to the west, Libya to the southeast, and the Mediterranean Sea to the north and east. Its area is almost 165,000 square kilometres (64,000 sq mi), with an estimated population of just over 10.4 million. Its name is derived from the capital Tunis located in the north-east. Tunisia is the smallest of the nations situated along the Atlas mountain range. The south of the country is composed of the Sahara desert, with much of the remainder consisting of particularly fertile soil and 1,300 kilometres (810 mi) of coastline. Both played a prominent role in ancient times, first with the famous Punic city of Carthage, then as the Roman province of Africa, which was known as the "bread basket" of Rome. Later, Tunisia was occupied by Vandals during the 5th century AD, Byzantines in the 6th century, and Arabs in the 8th century. Under the Ottoman Empire, Tunisia was known as "Regency of Tunis". It passed under French protectorate in 1881. After obtaining independence in 1956 the country took the official name of the "Kingdom of Tunisia" at the end of the reign of Lamine Bey and the Husainid Dynasty. With the proclamation of the Tunisian Republic on July 25, 1957, the nationalist leader Habib Bourguiba became its first president. The country was led by the authoritarian government of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from 1987 to 2011 before he fled during the Tunisian revolution. Tunisia now finds itself as an export-oriented country in the process of liberalizing and privatizing an economy that, while averaging 5% GDP growth since the early 1990s, has suffered from corruption benefiting the former president's family Tunisia has relations with both the European Union—with whom it has an association agreement—and the Arab world. Tunisia is also a member of the Arab Maghreb Union, the Arab League and the African Union. Tunisia has established close relations with France in particular, through economic cooperation, industrial modernization, and privatisation programs. The government's approach to the Israel-Palestine conflict has also made it an intermediary in Middle Eastern diplomacy.
Uganda|Uganda which takes its name from the Buganda kingdom is also known as the "Pearl of Africa" is bordered on the east by Kenya, on the north by South Sudan, on the west by the Democratic Republic of the Congo, on the southwest by Rwanda, and on the south by Tanzania. Kampala is Uganda’s capital city. Three East African countries, Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania share Lake Victoria or Sango. Uganda gained independence from Britain on 9 October 1962.Uganda’s official languages are English and Swahili.
Western Sahara|Western Sahara or Saharawi  is recognized by some countries only. It remains a disputed territory bordered by Algeria to the north east, Mo rocco to the North, Mauritania to the east and south and the Atlantic Ocean to the west. It has just over 500 000 people and is therefore sparsely populated with  a surface area of 266,000 square kilometers-. Western Sahara was colonized by Spain in the 19th Century and in 1975 she became free of Spain but was administered by Morocco and Mauritania. Morocco had formerly claimed the territory. Support for country comes from the five continents but some support Moroccos claims. None of the strong world powers speak clearly enough on the matter and so the situation remains ambiguous.
Zambia|The Republic of Zambia, is in Southern Africa. Her neighbors are the Democratic Republic of Congo to the north, Tanzania to the north-east, Botswana, Namibia, Zimbabwe and Mozambique to the South, and Malawi to the east. On 24 October 1964, the country declared independence from the British who had colonized here and called her Rodhesia after Cecil Rhodes. Letters to My Children is written by Kenneth Kaunda who was Zambia’s first head of state. He was in power from 1964 to 1991. In 2010, the World Bank named Zambia as one of the fastest growing economies in Africa. Zambia economy is built on her natural resources which include: minerals such as copper and diamonds. Did the Khoisan people have a way of writing or leaving messages as they hunted and gathered food in part of the world we now call Zambia? The Bantus are said to have settled there from the 12th Century in the course of their emigration route. Did they write something or are the first letters drawn on the continent the legacy of the Portugues Francisco de Lacerda Jose Maria, the first European to visit Zambia in the 18th Century? What can we say about writing in Zambia in the far past? Today Zambia has many writers. It also has 45. According to experts two of these languages that have no mother- tongue speakers.
Zimbabwe|Formerly known as Rhodesia Zimbabwe has produced famous works of literature.  Dambudzo Marachera, Chenjerai Hove, Tendai Mwanaka, Tsitsti Dangaremba to name but a few. The political situation of Zimbabwe did not daunt the creative people. At a dark time in 2008 the Book Club in Harare still had wonderful readings. There was humor and a sense of community around the book and reading with people of different races. Maktabaa witnessed that. The Harare Bookfair remains outstanding in Africa and in the world.Zimbabwe is a large country and is bordered by Mozambique to the west, South Africa and Botswana to the south and Zambia to the east and Tanzania to the north.